README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# Free Claude Code

### Use Claude Code CLI & VSCode — for free. No Anthropic API key required.

[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/stargazers)
[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/network/members)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.14](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.14-3776ab.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

[![uv](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/uv/main/assets/badge/v0.json&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)
[![Tested with Pytest](https://img.shields.io/badge/testing-Pytest-00c0ff.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![Type checking: Ty](https://img.shields.io/badge/type%20checking-ty-ffcc00.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/ty/)
[![Code style: Ruff](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20formatting-ruff-f5a623.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Logging: Loguru](https://img.shields.io/badge/logging-loguru-4ecdc4.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru)

A lightweight proxy server that translates Claude Code's Anthropic API calls into **NVIDIA NIM**, **OpenRouter**, or **LM Studio** format.
Get **40 free requests/min** on NVIDIA NIM, access **hundreds of models** on OpenRouter, or run **fully local** with LM Studio.

[Features](#features) · [Quick Start](#quick-start) · [How It Works](#how-it-works) · [Discord Bot](#discord-bot) · [Configuration](#configuration)

---

</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="pic.png" alt="Free Claude Code in action" width="700">
  <p><em>Claude Code running via NVIDIA NIM — completely free</em></p>
</div>

## Features

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Zero Cost** | 40 req/min free on NVIDIA NIM. Free models on OpenRouter. Fully local with LM Studio |
| **Drop-in Replacement** | Set 2 env vars — no modifications to Claude Code CLI or VSCode extension needed |
| **3 Providers** | NVIDIA NIM, OpenRouter (hundreds of models), LM Studio (local & offline) |
| **Thinking Token Support** | Parses `<think>` tags and `reasoning_content` into native Claude thinking blocks |
| **Heuristic Tool Parser** | Models outputting tool calls as text are auto-parsed into structured tool use |
| **Request Optimization** | 5 categories of trivial API calls intercepted locally — saves quota and latency |
| **Discord Bot** | Remote autonomous coding with tree-based threading, session persistence, and live progress (Telegram also supported) |
| **Smart Rate Limiting** | Proactive rolling-window throttle + reactive 429 exponential backoff across all providers |
| **Subagent Control** | Task tool interception forces `run_in_background=False` — no runaway subagents |
| **Extensible** | Clean `BaseProvider` and `MessagingPlatform` ABCs — add new providers or platforms easily |

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

1. Get an API key (or use LM Studio locally):
   - **NVIDIA NIM**: [build.nvidia.com/settings/api-keys](https://build.nvidia.com/settings/api-keys)
   - **OpenRouter**: [openrouter.ai/keys](https://openrouter.ai/keys)
   - **LM Studio**: No API key needed — run locally with [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai)
2. Install [Claude Code](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code)
3. Install [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

### Clone & Configure

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code.git
cd free-claude-code
cp .env.example .env
```

Choose your provider and edit `.env`:

<details>
<summary><b>NVIDIA NIM</b> (recommended — 40 req/min free)</summary>

```dotenv
PROVIDER_TYPE=nvidia_nim
NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY=nvapi-your-key-here
MODEL=stepfun-ai/step-3.5-flash
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>OpenRouter</b> (hundreds of models)</summary>

```dotenv
PROVIDER_TYPE=open_router
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=sk-or-your-key-here
MODEL=stepfun/step-3.5-flash:free
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>LM Studio</b> (fully local, no API key)</summary>

```dotenv
PROVIDER_TYPE=lmstudio
MODEL=lmstudio-community/qwen2.5-7b-instruct
```

</details>

### Run It

**Terminal 1** — Start the proxy server:

```bash
uv run uvicorn server:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8082
```

**Terminal 2** — Run Claude Code:

```bash
ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN=freecc ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8082 claude
```

That's it! Claude Code now uses your configured provider for free.

<details>
<summary><b>VSCode Extension Setup</b></summary>

1. Start the proxy server (same as above).
2. Open Settings (`Ctrl + ,`) and search for `claude-code.environmentVariables`.
3. Click **Edit in settings.json** and add:

```json
"claude-code.environmentVariables": [
  { "name": "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL", "value": "http://localhost:8082" },
  { "name": "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN", "value": "freecc" }
]
```

4. Reload extensions.
5. **If you see the login screen** ("How do you want to log in?"): Click **Anthropic Console**, then authorize. The extension will start working. You may be redirected to buy credits in the browser — ignore that; the extension already works.

To switch back to Anthropic models, comment out the added block and reload extensions.

</details>

---

## How It Works

```
┌─────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────┐
│  Claude Code    │───────>│  Free Claude Code    │───────>│  LLM Provider    │
│  CLI / VSCode   │<───────│  Proxy (:8082)       │<───────│  NIM / OR / LMS  │
└─────────────────┘        └──────────────────────┘        └──────────────────┘
   Anthropic API                     │                       OpenAI-compatible
   format (SSE)              ┌───────┴────────┐                format (SSE)
                             │ Optimizations  │
                             ├────────────────┤
                             │ Quota probes   │
                             │ Title gen skip │
                             │ Prefix detect  │
                             │ Suggestion skip│
                             │ Filepath mock  │
                             └────────────────┘
```

- **Transparent proxy** — Claude Code sends standard Anthropic API requests to the proxy server
- **Request optimization** — 5 categories of trivial requests (quota probes, title generation, prefix detection, suggestions, filepath extraction) are intercepted and responded to instantly without using API quota
- **Format translation** — Real requests are translated from Anthropic format to the provider's OpenAI-compatible format and streamed back
- **Thinking tokens** — `<think>` tags and `reasoning_content` fields are converted into native Claude thinking blocks so Claude Code renders them correctly

---

## Providers

| Provider | Cost | Rate Limit | Models | Best For |
|----------|------|------------|--------|----------|
| **NVIDIA NIM** | Free | 40 req/min | Kimi K2, GLM5, Devstral, MiniMax | Daily driver — generous free tier |
| **OpenRouter** | Free / Pay | Varies | 200+ (GPT-4o, Claude, Step, etc.) | Model variety, fallback options |
| **LM Studio** | Free (local) | Unlimited | Any GGUF model | Privacy, offline use, no rate limits |

Switch providers by changing `PROVIDER_TYPE` in `.env`:

| Provider | `PROVIDER_TYPE` | API Key Variable | Base URL |
|----------|-----------------|------------------|----------|
| NVIDIA NIM | `nvidia_nim` | `NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY` | `integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1` |
| OpenRouter | `open_router` | `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | `openrouter.ai/api/v1` |
| LM Studio | `lmstudio` | (none) | `localhost:1234/v1` |

OpenRouter gives access to hundreds of models (StepFun, OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.) through a single API. Set `MODEL` to any OpenRouter model ID.

LM Studio runs locally — start the server in LM Studio's Developer tab or via `lms server start`, load a model, and set `MODEL` to the model identifier.

---

## Discord Bot

Control Claude Code remotely from Discord. Send tasks, watch live progress, and manage multiple concurrent sessions. Discord is the default messaging platform; Telegram is also supported.

**Capabilities:**
- Tree-based message threading — reply to messages to fork conversations
- Session persistence across server restarts
- Live streaming of thinking tokens, tool calls, and results
- Up to 10 concurrent Claude CLI sessions
- Commands: `/stop` (cancel tasks), `/clear` (reset all sessions), `/stats`

### Setup

1. **Create a Discord Bot** — Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications), create an application, add a bot, and copy the token. Enable **Message Content Intent** under Bot settings.

2. **Edit `.env`:**

```dotenv
MESSAGING_PLATFORM=discord
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=your_discord_bot_token
ALLOWED_DISCORD_CHANNELS=123456789,987654321
```

> Enable Developer Mode in Discord (Settings → Advanced), then right-click a channel and "Copy ID" to get channel IDs. Comma-separate multiple channels. If empty, no channels are allowed.

3. **Configure the workspace** (where Claude will operate):

```dotenv
CLAUDE_WORKSPACE=./agent_workspace
ALLOWED_DIR=C:/Users/yourname/projects
```

4. **Start the server:**

```bash
uv run uvicorn server:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8082
```

5. **Invite the bot** to your server (OAuth2 → URL Generator, scopes: `bot`, permissions: Read Messages, Send Messages, Manage Messages, Read Message History). Send a message in an allowed channel with a task. Claude responds with thinking tokens, tool calls as they execute, and the final result. Reply `/stop` to a running task to cancel it.

### Telegram (Alternative)

To use Telegram instead, set `MESSAGING_PLATFORM=telegram` and configure:

```dotenv
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=123456789:ABCdefGHIjklMNOpqrSTUvwxYZ
ALLOWED_TELEGRAM_USER_ID=your_telegram_user_id
```

Get a token from [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather); find your user ID via [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot).

---

## Models

<details>
<summary><b>NVIDIA NIM</b></summary>

Full list in [`nvidia_nim_models.json`](nvidia_nim_models.json).

Popular models:
- `z-ai/glm5`
- `stepfun-ai/step-3.5-flash`
- `moonshotai/kimi-k2.5`
- `minimaxai/minimax-m2.1`
- `mistralai/devstral-2-123b-instruct-2512`

Browse: [build.nvidia.com](https://build.nvidia.com/explore/discover)

Update model list:
```bash
curl "https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/models" > nvidia_nim_models.json
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>OpenRouter</b></summary>

Hundreds of models from StepFun, OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, and more.

Popular models:
- `stepfun/step-3.5-flash:free`
- `deepseek/deepseek-r1-0528:free`
- `openai/gpt-oss-120b:free`

Browse: [openrouter.ai/models](https://openrouter.ai/models)

Browse free models: [https://openrouter.ai/collections/free-models](https://openrouter.ai/collections/free-models)

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>LM Studio</b></summary>

Run models locally with [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai). Load a model in the Chat or Developer tab, then set `MODEL` to its identifier.

Examples (native tool-use support):
- `lmstudio-community/qwen2.5-7b-instruct`
- `lmstudio-community/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct-GGUF`
- `bartowski/Ministral-8B-Instruct-2410-GGUF`

Browse: [model.lmstudio.ai](https://model.lmstudio.ai)

</details>

---

## Configuration

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `PROVIDER_TYPE` | Provider: `nvidia_nim`, `open_router`, or `lmstudio` | `nvidia_nim` |
| `MODEL` | Model to use for all requests | `stepfun-ai/step-3.5-flash` |
| `NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY` | NVIDIA API key (NIM provider) | required |
| `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | OpenRouter API key (OpenRouter provider) | required |
| `LM_STUDIO_BASE_URL` | LM Studio server URL | `http://localhost:1234/v1` |
| `PROVIDER_RATE_LIMIT` | LLM API requests per window | `40` |
| `PROVIDER_RATE_WINDOW` | Rate limit window (seconds) | `60` |
| `FAST_PREFIX_DETECTION` | Enable fast prefix detection | `true` |
| `ENABLE_NETWORK_PROBE_MOCK` | Enable network probe mock | `true` |
| `ENABLE_TITLE_GENERATION_SKIP` | Skip title generation | `true` |
| `ENABLE_SUGGESTION_MODE_SKIP` | Skip suggestion mode | `true` |
| `ENABLE_FILEPATH_EXTRACTION_MOCK` | Enable filepath extraction mock | `true` |
| `MESSAGING_PLATFORM` | Messaging platform: `discord` or `telegram` | `discord` |
| `DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN` | Discord Bot Token | `""` |
| `ALLOWED_DISCORD_CHANNELS` | Comma-separated channel IDs (empty = none allowed) | `""` |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | Telegram Bot Token | `""` |
| `ALLOWED_TELEGRAM_USER_ID` | Allowed Telegram User ID | `""` |
| `MESSAGING_RATE_LIMIT` | Messaging messages per window | `1` |
| `MESSAGING_RATE_WINDOW` | Messaging window (seconds) | `1` |
| `CLAUDE_WORKSPACE` | Directory for agent workspace | `./agent_workspace` |
| `ALLOWED_DIR` | Allowed directories for agent | `""` |
| `MAX_CLI_SESSIONS` | Max concurrent CLI sessions | `10` |

See [`.env.example`](.env.example) for all supported parameters.

---

## Development

### Project Structure

```
free-claude-code/
├── server.py              # Entry point
├── api/                   # FastAPI routes, request detection, optimization handlers
├── providers/             # BaseProvider ABC + NVIDIA NIM, OpenRouter, LM Studio
├── messaging/             # MessagingPlatform ABC + Discord/Telegram bots, session management
├── config/                # Settings, NIM config, logging
├── cli/                   # CLI session and process management
├── utils/                 # Text utilities
└── tests/                 # Pytest test suite
```

### Commands

```bash
uv run pytest          # Run tests
uv run ty check        # Type checking
uv run ruff check      # Code style checking
uv run ruff format     # Code formatting
```

---

## Extending

### Adding a Provider

Extend `BaseProvider` in `providers/` to add support for other APIs:

```python
from providers.base import BaseProvider, ProviderConfig

class MyProvider(BaseProvider):
    async def stream_response(self, request, input_tokens=0, *, request_id=None):
        # Yield Anthropic SSE format events
        ...
```

### Adding a Messaging Platform

Extend `MessagingPlatform` in `messaging/` to add Slack or other platforms:

```python
from messaging.base import MessagingPlatform

class MyPlatform(MessagingPlatform):
    async def start(self):
        # Initialize connection
        ...

    async def stop(self):
        # Cleanup
        ...

    async def send_message(self, chat_id, text, reply_to=None, parse_mode=None):
        # Send a message
        ...

    async def edit_message(self, chat_id, message_id, text, parse_mode=None):
        # Edit an existing message
        ...

    def on_message(self, handler):
        # Register callback for incoming messages
        ...
```

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here are some ways to help:

- Report bugs or suggest features via [Issues](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/issues)
- Add new LLM providers (Groq, Together AI, etc.)
- Add new messaging platforms (Slack, etc.)
- Improve test coverage

```bash
# Fork the repo, then:
git checkout -b my-feature
# Make your changes
uv run pytest && uv run ty check && uv run ruff check && uv run ruff format --check
# Open a pull request
```

---

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** — see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Built with [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/), [OpenAI Python SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), [discord.py](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py), and [python-telegram-bot](https://python-telegram-bot.org/).

Commit message:

Add configurable HTTP timeouts for provider API requests
Updated the README to include new timeout settings. Implemented these timeouts in the provider classes and added corresponding tests to ensure they are correctly passed to the client. Also included environment variable support for the new settings.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# Free Claude Code

### Use Claude Code CLI & VSCode — for free. No Anthropic API key required.

[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/stargazers)
[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/network/members)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.14](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.14-3776ab.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=python&logoColor=white)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

[![uv](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/astral-sh/uv/main/assets/badge/v0.json&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)
[![Tested with Pytest](https://img.shields.io/badge/testing-Pytest-00c0ff.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![Type checking: Ty](https://img.shields.io/badge/type%20checking-ty-ffcc00.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://pypi.org/project/ty/)
[![Code style: Ruff](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20formatting-ruff-f5a623.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Logging: Loguru](https://img.shields.io/badge/logging-loguru-4ecdc4.svg?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/Delgan/loguru)

A lightweight proxy server that translates Claude Code's Anthropic API calls into **NVIDIA NIM**, **OpenRouter**, or **LM Studio** format.
Get **40 free requests/min** on NVIDIA NIM, access **hundreds of models** on OpenRouter, or run **fully local** with LM Studio.

[Features](#features) · [Quick Start](#quick-start) · [How It Works](#how-it-works) · [Discord Bot](#discord-bot) · [Configuration](#configuration)

---

</div>

<div align="center">
  <img src="pic.png" alt="Free Claude Code in action" width="700">
  <p><em>Claude Code running via NVIDIA NIM — completely free</em></p>
</div>

## Features

| Feature | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Zero Cost** | 40 req/min free on NVIDIA NIM. Free models on OpenRouter. Fully local with LM Studio |
| **Drop-in Replacement** | Set 2 env vars — no modifications to Claude Code CLI or VSCode extension needed |
| **3 Providers** | NVIDIA NIM, OpenRouter (hundreds of models), LM Studio (local & offline) |
| **Thinking Token Support** | Parses `<think>` tags and `reasoning_content` into native Claude thinking blocks |
| **Heuristic Tool Parser** | Models outputting tool calls as text are auto-parsed into structured tool use |
| **Request Optimization** | 5 categories of trivial API calls intercepted locally — saves quota and latency |
| **Discord Bot** | Remote autonomous coding with tree-based threading, session persistence, and live progress (Telegram also supported) |
| **Smart Rate Limiting** | Proactive rolling-window throttle + reactive 429 exponential backoff across all providers |
| **Subagent Control** | Task tool interception forces `run_in_background=False` — no runaway subagents |
| **Extensible** | Clean `BaseProvider` and `MessagingPlatform` ABCs — add new providers or platforms easily |

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

1. Get an API key (or use LM Studio locally):
   - **NVIDIA NIM**: [build.nvidia.com/settings/api-keys](https://build.nvidia.com/settings/api-keys)
   - **OpenRouter**: [openrouter.ai/keys](https://openrouter.ai/keys)
   - **LM Studio**: No API key needed — run locally with [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai)
2. Install [Claude Code](https://github.com/anthropics/claude-code)
3. Install [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv)

### Clone & Configure

```bash
git clone https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code.git
cd free-claude-code
cp .env.example .env
```

Choose your provider and edit `.env`:

<details>
<summary><b>NVIDIA NIM</b> (recommended — 40 req/min free)</summary>

```dotenv
PROVIDER_TYPE=nvidia_nim
NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY=nvapi-your-key-here
MODEL=stepfun-ai/step-3.5-flash
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>OpenRouter</b> (hundreds of models)</summary>

```dotenv
PROVIDER_TYPE=open_router
OPENROUTER_API_KEY=sk-or-your-key-here
MODEL=stepfun/step-3.5-flash:free
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>LM Studio</b> (fully local, no API key)</summary>

```dotenv
PROVIDER_TYPE=lmstudio
MODEL=lmstudio-community/qwen2.5-7b-instruct
```

</details>

### Run It

**Terminal 1** — Start the proxy server:

```bash
uv run uvicorn server:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8082
```

**Terminal 2** — Run Claude Code:

```bash
ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN=freecc ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL=http://localhost:8082 claude
```

That's it! Claude Code now uses your configured provider for free.

<details>
<summary><b>VSCode Extension Setup</b></summary>

1. Start the proxy server (same as above).
2. Open Settings (`Ctrl + ,`) and search for `claude-code.environmentVariables`.
3. Click **Edit in settings.json** and add:

```json
"claude-code.environmentVariables": [
  { "name": "ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL", "value": "http://localhost:8082" },
  { "name": "ANTHROPIC_AUTH_TOKEN", "value": "freecc" }
]
```

4. Reload extensions.
5. **If you see the login screen** ("How do you want to log in?"): Click **Anthropic Console**, then authorize. The extension will start working. You may be redirected to buy credits in the browser — ignore that; the extension already works.

To switch back to Anthropic models, comment out the added block and reload extensions.

</details>

---

## How It Works

```
┌─────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────────┐        ┌──────────────────┐
│  Claude Code    │───────>│  Free Claude Code    │───────>│  LLM Provider    │
│  CLI / VSCode   │<───────│  Proxy (:8082)       │<───────│  NIM / OR / LMS  │
└─────────────────┘        └──────────────────────┘        └──────────────────┘
   Anthropic API                     │                       OpenAI-compatible
   format (SSE)              ┌───────┴────────┐                format (SSE)
                             │ Optimizations  │
                             ├────────────────┤
                             │ Quota probes   │
                             │ Title gen skip │
                             │ Prefix detect  │
                             │ Suggestion skip│
                             │ Filepath mock  │
                             └────────────────┘
```

- **Transparent proxy** — Claude Code sends standard Anthropic API requests to the proxy server
- **Request optimization** — 5 categories of trivial requests (quota probes, title generation, prefix detection, suggestions, filepath extraction) are intercepted and responded to instantly without using API quota
- **Format translation** — Real requests are translated from Anthropic format to the provider's OpenAI-compatible format and streamed back
- **Thinking tokens** — `<think>` tags and `reasoning_content` fields are converted into native Claude thinking blocks so Claude Code renders them correctly

---

## Providers

| Provider | Cost | Rate Limit | Models | Best For |
|----------|------|------------|--------|----------|
| **NVIDIA NIM** | Free | 40 req/min | Kimi K2, GLM5, Devstral, MiniMax | Daily driver — generous free tier |
| **OpenRouter** | Free / Pay | Varies | 200+ (GPT-4o, Claude, Step, etc.) | Model variety, fallback options |
| **LM Studio** | Free (local) | Unlimited | Any GGUF model | Privacy, offline use, no rate limits |

Switch providers by changing `PROVIDER_TYPE` in `.env`:

| Provider | `PROVIDER_TYPE` | API Key Variable | Base URL |
|----------|-----------------|------------------|----------|
| NVIDIA NIM | `nvidia_nim` | `NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY` | `integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1` |
| OpenRouter | `open_router` | `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | `openrouter.ai/api/v1` |
| LM Studio | `lmstudio` | (none) | `localhost:1234/v1` |

OpenRouter gives access to hundreds of models (StepFun, OpenAI, Anthropic, etc.) through a single API. Set `MODEL` to any OpenRouter model ID.

LM Studio runs locally — start the server in LM Studio's Developer tab or via `lms server start`, load a model, and set `MODEL` to the model identifier.

---

## Discord Bot

Control Claude Code remotely from Discord. Send tasks, watch live progress, and manage multiple concurrent sessions. Discord is the default messaging platform; Telegram is also supported.

**Capabilities:**
- Tree-based message threading — reply to messages to fork conversations
- Session persistence across server restarts
- Live streaming of thinking tokens, tool calls, and results
- Up to 10 concurrent Claude CLI sessions
- Commands: `/stop` (cancel tasks), `/clear` (reset all sessions), `/stats`

### Setup

1. **Create a Discord Bot** — Go to [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications), create an application, add a bot, and copy the token. Enable **Message Content Intent** under Bot settings.

2. **Edit `.env`:**

```dotenv
MESSAGING_PLATFORM=discord
DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN=your_discord_bot_token
ALLOWED_DISCORD_CHANNELS=123456789,987654321
```

> Enable Developer Mode in Discord (Settings → Advanced), then right-click a channel and "Copy ID" to get channel IDs. Comma-separate multiple channels. If empty, no channels are allowed.

3. **Configure the workspace** (where Claude will operate):

```dotenv
CLAUDE_WORKSPACE=./agent_workspace
ALLOWED_DIR=C:/Users/yourname/projects
```

4. **Start the server:**

```bash
uv run uvicorn server:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8082
```

5. **Invite the bot** to your server (OAuth2 → URL Generator, scopes: `bot`, permissions: Read Messages, Send Messages, Manage Messages, Read Message History). Send a message in an allowed channel with a task. Claude responds with thinking tokens, tool calls as they execute, and the final result. Reply `/stop` to a running task to cancel it.

### Telegram (Alternative)

To use Telegram instead, set `MESSAGING_PLATFORM=telegram` and configure:

```dotenv
TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=123456789:ABCdefGHIjklMNOpqrSTUvwxYZ
ALLOWED_TELEGRAM_USER_ID=your_telegram_user_id
```

Get a token from [@BotFather](https://t.me/BotFather); find your user ID via [@userinfobot](https://t.me/userinfobot).

---

## Models

<details>
<summary><b>NVIDIA NIM</b></summary>

Full list in [`nvidia_nim_models.json`](nvidia_nim_models.json).

Popular models:
- `z-ai/glm5`
- `stepfun-ai/step-3.5-flash`
- `moonshotai/kimi-k2.5`
- `minimaxai/minimax-m2.1`
- `mistralai/devstral-2-123b-instruct-2512`

Browse: [build.nvidia.com](https://build.nvidia.com/explore/discover)

Update model list:
```bash
curl "https://integrate.api.nvidia.com/v1/models" > nvidia_nim_models.json
```

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>OpenRouter</b></summary>

Hundreds of models from StepFun, OpenAI, Anthropic, Google, and more.

Popular models:
- `stepfun/step-3.5-flash:free`
- `deepseek/deepseek-r1-0528:free`
- `openai/gpt-oss-120b:free`

Browse: [openrouter.ai/models](https://openrouter.ai/models)

Browse free models: [https://openrouter.ai/collections/free-models](https://openrouter.ai/collections/free-models)

</details>

<details>
<summary><b>LM Studio</b></summary>

Run models locally with [LM Studio](https://lmstudio.ai). Load a model in the Chat or Developer tab, then set `MODEL` to its identifier.

Examples (native tool-use support):
- `lmstudio-community/qwen2.5-7b-instruct`
- `lmstudio-community/Meta-Llama-3.1-8B-Instruct-GGUF`
- `bartowski/Ministral-8B-Instruct-2410-GGUF`

Browse: [model.lmstudio.ai](https://model.lmstudio.ai)

</details>

---

## Configuration

| Variable | Description | Default |
|----------|-------------|---------|
| `PROVIDER_TYPE` | Provider: `nvidia_nim`, `open_router`, or `lmstudio` | `nvidia_nim` |
| `MODEL` | Model to use for all requests | `stepfun-ai/step-3.5-flash` |
| `NVIDIA_NIM_API_KEY` | NVIDIA API key (NIM provider) | required |
| `OPENROUTER_API_KEY` | OpenRouter API key (OpenRouter provider) | required |
| `LM_STUDIO_BASE_URL` | LM Studio server URL | `http://localhost:1234/v1` |
| `PROVIDER_RATE_LIMIT` | LLM API requests per window | `40` |
| `PROVIDER_RATE_WINDOW` | Rate limit window (seconds) | `60` |
| `HTTP_READ_TIMEOUT` | Read timeout for provider API requests (seconds) | `300` |
| `HTTP_WRITE_TIMEOUT` | Write timeout for provider API requests (seconds) | `10` |
| `HTTP_CONNECT_TIMEOUT` | Connect timeout for provider API requests (seconds) | `2` |
| `FAST_PREFIX_DETECTION` | Enable fast prefix detection | `true` |
| `ENABLE_NETWORK_PROBE_MOCK` | Enable network probe mock | `true` |
| `ENABLE_TITLE_GENERATION_SKIP` | Skip title generation | `true` |
| `ENABLE_SUGGESTION_MODE_SKIP` | Skip suggestion mode | `true` |
| `ENABLE_FILEPATH_EXTRACTION_MOCK` | Enable filepath extraction mock | `true` |
| `MESSAGING_PLATFORM` | Messaging platform: `discord` or `telegram` | `discord` |
| `DISCORD_BOT_TOKEN` | Discord Bot Token | `""` |
| `ALLOWED_DISCORD_CHANNELS` | Comma-separated channel IDs (empty = none allowed) | `""` |
| `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN` | Telegram Bot Token | `""` |
| `ALLOWED_TELEGRAM_USER_ID` | Allowed Telegram User ID | `""` |
| `MESSAGING_RATE_LIMIT` | Messaging messages per window | `1` |
| `MESSAGING_RATE_WINDOW` | Messaging window (seconds) | `1` |
| `CLAUDE_WORKSPACE` | Directory for agent workspace | `./agent_workspace` |
| `ALLOWED_DIR` | Allowed directories for agent | `""` |
| `MAX_CLI_SESSIONS` | Max concurrent CLI sessions | `10` |

See [`.env.example`](.env.example) for all supported parameters.

---

## Development

### Project Structure

```
free-claude-code/
├── server.py              # Entry point
├── api/                   # FastAPI routes, request detection, optimization handlers
├── providers/             # BaseProvider ABC + NVIDIA NIM, OpenRouter, LM Studio
├── messaging/             # MessagingPlatform ABC + Discord/Telegram bots, session management
├── config/                # Settings, NIM config, logging
├── cli/                   # CLI session and process management
├── utils/                 # Text utilities
└── tests/                 # Pytest test suite
```

### Commands

```bash
uv run pytest          # Run tests
uv run ty check        # Type checking
uv run ruff check      # Code style checking
uv run ruff format     # Code formatting
```

---

## Extending

### Adding a Provider

Extend `BaseProvider` in `providers/` to add support for other APIs:

```python
from providers.base import BaseProvider, ProviderConfig

class MyProvider(BaseProvider):
    async def stream_response(self, request, input_tokens=0, *, request_id=None):
        # Yield Anthropic SSE format events
        ...
```

### Adding a Messaging Platform

Extend `MessagingPlatform` in `messaging/` to add Slack or other platforms:

```python
from messaging.base import MessagingPlatform

class MyPlatform(MessagingPlatform):
    async def start(self):
        # Initialize connection
        ...

    async def stop(self):
        # Cleanup
        ...

    async def send_message(self, chat_id, text, reply_to=None, parse_mode=None):
        # Send a message
        ...

    async def edit_message(self, chat_id, message_id, text, parse_mode=None):
        # Edit an existing message
        ...

    def on_message(self, handler):
        # Register callback for incoming messages
        ...
```

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Here are some ways to help:

- Report bugs or suggest features via [Issues](https://github.com/Alishahryar1/free-claude-code/issues)
- Add new LLM providers (Groq, Together AI, etc.)
- Add new messaging platforms (Slack, etc.)
- Improve test coverage

```bash
# Fork the repo, then:
git checkout -b my-feature
# Make your changes
uv run pytest && uv run ty check && uv run ruff check && uv run ruff format --check
# Open a pull request
```

---

## License

This project is licensed under the **MIT License** — see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Built with [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/), [OpenAI Python SDK](https://github.com/openai/openai-python), [discord.py](https://github.com/Rapptz/discord.py), and [python-telegram-bot](https://python-telegram-bot.org/).
